# undergrads-theses-stata-coding-2023
This code summarizes all STATA coding for Economics' UI Undergraduate Thesis.
 My theses try to understand causal effect between economic complexity and regional integration is ASEAN . 
 To answer both research questions, this study adopts the empirical model of Nguyen et. al (2021) and two system of econometrics: Seemingly Unrelated Regression Estimation (SURE) and Simultaneous Equation Model Estimator (SEME). The reason of choose SURE model is due to the consideration the possibility that these two equation errors are correlated. Therefore, both equations run under one system that has unrelated errors. While SEME is chosen to measure since one of the exogeneous variables in (3.2) can be affected by the endogenous dependent variable. This econometric analysis opens up the probability that economic complexity might affect regional integration and regional integration might affect economic complexity in the country level. In other word, the relationship is reciprocal and hence, these methods require both of the equations to best estimated into one system. 
There is pondering why this research extends the empirical model from Nguyen et. al (2021). To solve the endogeneity problem, the original model proposed used the generalized method of moments (GMM). However, the method itself is considered limited to solve, as the author extend the research question that lead to adding new variable: convergence. Thus, the selection of the econometric model takes a different path rather than the original model. Hence, at the first understanding, the method of instrumental variables arises to answer the problem of the endogeneity: omitted variables and measurement errors (Wooldridge, 2016) where another important form of endogeneity is simultaneity, that appears between convergence and complexity. This arises as when one or more of the explanatory variables is jointly determined with the dependent variable. As a consequence, the method of instrumental variable is limited solve the problem, Simultaneous equation model is chosen to solve and estimate both equations. This matter is also the reason why this research proposes two models of equations in one system.
